<!--
	Do not edit this file directly.
	Auto-populated via
	* Template: src/routes/home.md
	* Script: scripts/watchReadme.ts
-->

# `dev-random`

Generate pseudo-random numbers of various numeric types, optionally using a seeded PRNG.

The seeded PRNG uses the PCG32 algorithm.

## Request

### Example

<pre><code>GET <a target="_blank" href="https://dev-random.deno.dev/numbers?type=f64&count=5&seed=16219948517617292328">/numbers?type=f64&count=5&seed=16219948517617292328</a></code></pre>

### Parameters

- **`type`**: The type of numbers to generate. Must be one of `f64`, `u8`, `u16`, `u32`, `u64`, `i8`, `i16`, `i32`, or `i64`.
  > [!NOTE]
  > For `u64` and `i64`, the numbers will be returned as strings to avoid losing accuracy when parsing from JSON.

- **`count`**: The quantity of random numbers to generate. Must be a non-negative integer ≤ 10,000.

- **`seed`**: The seed to use for the random number generator.
  - If set to a u64 integer, that will be used to seed the PRNG.
  - If set to the string `none`, a non-seeded PRNG will be used.
  - If set to `pcg32_<state>_<inc>`, the `state` and `inc` values will be used to initialize the PRNG. This is
    the format returned in the `seed` query param of the `_links` in the response and can be used to "paginate" through
    the random number stream.
  - If omitted or empty, a random seed will be generated, and the request will be redirected to that seed.

## Response

### Example

```json
{
    "type": "f64",
    "values": [
        0.8635932725677103,
        0.635679392131898,
        0.5647627715199439,
        0.623146481031364,
        0.3477782168254496
    ],
    "_links": {
        "prev": "?type=f64&count=5&seed=pcg32_a985b65805165254_7ce20184f61636db",
        "self": "?type=f64&count=5&seed=pcg32_172a6a82087ba756_7ce20184f61636db",
        "next": "?type=f64&count=5&seed=pcg32_79d63b583cf98468_7ce20184f61636db"
    }
}
```

### Fields

- **`type`**: The type of numbers generated. This will be the same as the `type` parameter in the request.
- **`values`**: An array of random numbers generated. For `u64` and `i64`, these will be returned as strings to avoid
  losing accuracy when parsing from JSON.
- **`_links`**: Relative links to more results, resuming from the same state, containing the PRNG's state in the `seed`
  query param. `_links` will be `null` if a non-seeded PRNG was used.
